correct errors and enhance readability in `protocol/design-rationale` (#290)
eth-protocol-fellows/protocol-studies: docs/wiki/protocol/design-rationale.md

These are the core tenets that sparked the work on Ethereum's architecture and implementation:

- **Simplicity**:
Since its inception, the Ethereum protocol was designed with simplicity in mind and an ambitious roadmap to add features along the way. This stemmed from the idea that any average programmer should ideally be able to understand and implement the entire specification, primarily to minimize the influence on the protocol by an individual or an elite group of developers. While this narrative has largely changed due to major modifications to the protocol. 

- **Universality**:
One of the fundamental doctrines of Ethereum's design philosophy is that Ethereum has no ***features***. Ethereum provides an internal Turing-complete virtual machine, called the [EVM](/wiki/EL/evm.md), which you can use to construct any smart contract or transaction type that can be mathematically defined. Ethereum aims to become a platform where new age developers can build decentralized and truly trustless applications without worrying about the underlying complexity.

- **Modularity**:

> Making the Ethereum protocol modular is crucial to it being **future-proof**. While Ethereum is far from being perfect, there is a continuous and rigorous research and engineering effort that runs parallel to the existence of the protocol. Over the course of development, it should be easy to make a small protocol modification in one place and have the application stack continue to function without any further modification. Innovations such as Dagger, Patricia trees and SSZ have been implemented as separate libraries and made to be feature-complete even if Ethereum does not require certain features so as to make them usable in other protocols as well. With features such as [Proto-Danksharding](/wiki/research/scaling/core-changes/eip-4844.md), Ethereum provides building blocks for scaling of Layer 2 chains. Modularity derives itself from the idea of [encapsulated complexity](#https://vitalik.eth.limo/general/2022/02/28/complexity.html). Encapsulated complexity occurs when a system consists of sub-systems -- which are internally complex and are available to the outside by means of high level interfaces. Now, this engenders a lot of flexibility in terms of choice of sub-systems and better debugging of individual components.

Author: consists from -> consists of

# [Blockchain level protocol](#blockchain-level-protocol)

### **Accounts over UTXOs**
Earliest implementations of blockchain including bitcoin and it's derivatives, store user balance in a structure based on unspent transaction outputs (UTXOs). Ethereum on the other hand uses an account based model.

> **UTXO**: an unspent transaction output (UTXO) is a distinctive element in a subset of digital currency models. A UTXO represents a certain amount of cryptocurrency that has been authorized by a sender and is available to be spent by a recipient.

A user's "balance" in the system is thus the total value of the set of coins for which the user has a private key capable of producing a valid signature. The account based model is more flexible and allows for more complex transactions.

> Ethereum follows an accounts based model over the UTXOs. While UTXOs provide a higher degree of privacy, they also introduce more complexity to a system like Ethereum. Accounts also offer high fungibility, enabling greater flexibility ub implementations such as decentralized exchanges, which aligns with Ethereum's original purpose.

Author: TODO: fix typo `ub`

> Ethereum follows an accounts based model over the UTXOs. While UTXOs provide a higher degree of privacy, they also introduce more complexity to a system like Ethereum. Accounts also offer high fungibility, enabling greater flexibility ub implementations such as decentralized exchanges, which aligns with Ethereum's original purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ethereum follows an accounts based model over the UTXOs. While UTXOs provide a higher degree of privacy, they also introduce more complexity to a system like Ethereum. Accounts are also fungible, enabling greater flexibility of implementations such as decentralized exchanges, which aligns with Ethereum's original purpose.
```

### **Recursive Length Prefix (RLP)**
Complete implementation and details can be found on [RLP page](/wiki/EL/RLP.md)

The rationale behind creating a new serialization scheme lies in the probabilistic nature of other schemes. RLP solves this problem by being simple yet deterministic serialization; and guarantees absolute byte-perfect consistency. RLP does not attempt to define any specific data type such as boolean, floats, doubles or even integers -- instead, it simply exists to store structure, in the form of nested arrays. Key/value maps are also not explicitly supported; the semi-official suggestion for supporting key/value maps is to represent such maps as``` [[k1, v1], [k2, v2], ...]``` where ```k1, k2...``` are sorted using the standard ordering for strings.

The notion of complete anonymity of the data structure to the serialization algorithm over time has turned out to be inefficient for fixed-length data types like booleans and integers. SimpleSerialize (SSZ) was introduced in Ethereum 2.0, which supported both variable-sized and fixed-sized data types with additional features like Merkleization.

### **Simple serialize (SSZ)**

> Serialization is the process of converting data structures into a format that can be transmitted and reconstructed later. SSZ is a serialization format used in Ethereum 2.0 Beacon chain. Designed to be serialization scheme that is not self-describing -- rather it relies on a schema that must be known in advance. SSZ has a bunch of advantages over RLP, like efficient re-hashing of objects and fast indexing, which RLP lacks resulting in $O(N)$ complexity.

Author: "transmuted" implies a change, which is not the intended meaning in the context of serialization

Simply put, each validator votes on the checkpoint, and after two rounds of voting, the checkpoint is **finalized**. All finalized checkpoints become part of the canonical chain (part of the blockchain history). While Casper guarantees **finality** through attestations to the latest block addition to the canonical chain, it requires a fork-choice rule where validators attest to blocks to signal support for those blocks.

- ***LMD GHOST***
Latest Message Driven Greediest Heaviest Observed Sub-Tree (LMD-GHOST) is a *fork choice rule* where validators attests to blocks to signal support for those blocks. This similar in some ways to the fork choice rule used in Proof-of-Work network, where the fork with the most work done is selected as the canonical chain.

![LMD-GHOST-Algorithm](./img/lmt-ghost.png)

> Gasper is full Proof-of-Stake protocol that serves as an idealized abstraction of the Ethereum implementation. It combines Casper FFG and LMD-GHOST to drive the consensus mechanism for the Eth2.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Gasper is full Proof-of-stake protocol that serves as an idealized abstraction of the Ethereum implementation. It combines Casper FFG and LMD-GHOST to drive the consensus mechanism for the Eth2.
```
As per content standardization: https://ethereum.org/en/contributing/style-guide/content-standardization/#proof-of
